---
title: "Observations using GitHub Actions"
date: 2022-02-05T18:56:37-08:00
draft: true
---

### Continuous Integration and Continuous Frustration

Look, CI/CD platforms have been been extremely flawed for years. CircleCI, TeamCity, and SemaphoreCI are just a handful of the CI-as-a-Service platforms that I have used professionally. All of them have presented inexplicable limitations and behaviors that are hard to explain to a development organization, and hard for an SRE or other DevOps-flavored support engineer to adequately work around for the needs of those teams.

### The Problem.

At the end of last year my organization made a concerted effort between our entire engineering organization to be able support a migration from SemaphoreCI to GitHub Actions (GHA for the rest of this post.) One of the main drivers for this migration push was because Semaphore simply *does not* adequately protect secrets that are stored within the Semaphore organization in question. Any engineer with access to the CI system can, in theory, login using the `sem` CLI tool and display the full unencrypted secret payload. 

There are, admittedly, ways around this using cryptography or limited access to the CI system in total, but this is simply not sustainable for a growing organization in many cases. Contractors, junior engineers, and other entities need the ability to debug pre-prod commits, edge-case CI failures, and other activity. Without a strongly supported and well-funded release management organization or dedicated CI/CD team writing tools to allow for secure access to logging and other outputs from these systems the only realistic option is to "trust your people" and allow them direct access to these systems.

### The **Real** Problem
 
In my role as an SRE for multiple organizations over the years I have generally been insulated from major compliance concerns beyond best practices and gross negligence. This all came to an abrupt and shockingly stark end when I joined a healthtech start up in 2020. 

This industry is governed by various well-meaning but fundamentally flawed compliance regimes and legislative regulations that make it very difficult to reliably deliver software using generally recognized best practices, hard learned *must haves,* and other modern software development processes.

One of the most onerous of these forces meeting like a Voltron of simultaneous criminal/civil penalty threat and corporate responsibility lies with who not only has access to PHI/PII data, but who can even access systems with the *chance* of gaining access to this data. The short story here is if critical secrets and data cannot be guarded beyond simple primitives you, as an organization, need to strictly limit access to the system as a whole.

GitHub Actions gives our organization remarkably strong access controls for this type of secret material, and the sensitive outputs that may be exposed when using them in the course of business. 

### Secrets Access

GitHub Actions are subject to a number of very confusing permissions access rules. I have mainly encountered problems when trying to interpolate secret values through subroutines and workflows called as a dependency from the main workflow.

